docs: include a section with CircleCI instructions (#318)
game-ci/documentation: docs/11-circleci/01-getting-started.mdx

---
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Getting started

This guide will help you test and build your Unity project using our
[Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity).

## Overall steps

1. Understand how CircleCI works.
2. Set up a workflow for your project.
3. Download the artifacts from your first build.

> ## CircleCI

Reviewer: I kinda like how the [GitLab section](https://game.ci/docs/gitlab/getting-started#setting-up-gitlab-ci-for-your-unity-project) had the option for the reader to use a sample project if they didn't already have their own. I wonder if it would make sense to do the same here as well. Perhaps with https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/Unity2D-Demo-Game-CI-CD?

Author: That's a pretty good idea! I need to update the demo project before referencing it, so I might not include it in this PR. But I'll 100% add it.

```yaml
version: 2.1

orbs:
  unity: game-ci/unity@x.y

workflows:
  test-and-build-unity-project:
    jobs:
      - unity/test:
          name: 'test-linux'
          step-name: 'Check if tests run and results are uploaded'
          unity-license-var-name: 'UNITY_ENCODED_LICENSE'
          unity-username-var-name: 'UNITY_USERNAME'
          unity-password-var-name: 'UNITY_PASSWORD'
          executor:
            name: 'unity/ubuntu'
            target_platform: 'linux-il2cpp'
            editor_version: '2021.3.1f1'
            resource_class: 'medium'
          project-path: 'Unity2D-Demo-Game-CI-CD/src'
          test-platform: 'playmode'
          context: unity
      - unity/build: ...
```

You can add it as a [requirement](https://circleci.com/docs/configuration-reference#requires) in the
build job to prevent it from running in case of failure:

```yaml
version: 2.1

orbs:
  unity: game-ci/unity@x.y

workflows:
  test-and-build-unity-project:
    jobs:
      - unity/test:
          name: 'test-linux'
          ...
      - unity/build:
          ...
          requires:
            - test-linux
```

4. Commit and push the new workflow.

## Downloading the artifacts

> 1. Navigate to your project in the CircleCI Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your project in the CircleCI [web app](https://app.circleci.com/).
```
In the CircleCI docs we refer to it as the "web app," and I think it would be preferable to do the same here as well.

---
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Getting started

> This guide will help you test and build your Unity project using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will help you test and build your Unity project using our
```

Author: Done ✔️

[Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity).

## Overall steps

> 1. Understand how CircleCI works.
> 2. Set up a workflow for your project.
> 3. Download the artifacts from your first build using the orb.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Understand how CircleCI works.
2. Set up a workflow for your project.
3. Download the artifacts from your first build.
```

Author: Done ✔️

## CircleCI

If you are not familiar with CircleCI, read the official documentation on how to set up a

> [workflow](https://circleci.com/docs/getting-started). Subsequent steps will assume you have done

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[workflow](https://circleci.com/docs/getting-started). The following steps will assume you have done
```

Author: Done ✔️

so.

#### Unity Orb

[Orbs](https://circleci.com/orbs/) are reusable snippets of code that help automate repeated
processes, speed up project setup and make it easy to integrate with third-party tools.

> To streamline the process of testing and building Unity projects in CircleCI, GameCI provides the
> [Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity) — a certified orb capable of
> dependencies caching, artifacts storage, test data collection and macOS, Windows, Docker, Machine
> and Runner support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To streamline the process of testing and building Unity projects in CircleCI, we provide the
[Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity) — a certified orb capable of
caching dependencies, storing artifacts and collecting test data, supporting macOS and Windows with Docker, Machine and Runner options.
```

Author: > supporting macOS and Windows with Docker, Machine and Runner options.

This is technically correct, but it doesn't relay what I was trying to say. In CircleCI, "Docker" is a type of executor, which is why it's part of the list in my original sentence and a separate item from Windows.

I'm changing the phrase to:

```mdx
To streamline the process of testing and building Unity projects in CircleCI, we provide the
[Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity) — a certified orb capable of
caching dependencies, storing artifacts, collecting test data and running on several 
[executors](/docs/circleci/executors).

```

Let me know what you think!

Reviewer 2: Great!

In further sections, you will learn how to import and use the orb to test and build your project for

> several target platforms.

Author: Done ✔️

_**Note:** the orb is in the early stages of development; it doesn't have all features included in

> the [Builder Action](/docs/github/builder)._

Author: Unless I'm missing something, the Orb and the GitLab solution should be equal in terms of features. And I have reservations about saying that the Orb is a WIP in the docs because, technically, it will always be until we drop support.

I feel like "early stages of development" gives the notion of ready to be used but not as complete as the alternative, which is the GH action in this case. All that said, maybe we could reword it like this:

```mdx
_**Note:** the Orb is in the early stages of development. If you need a feature-complete solution, check our GitHub
[Builder Action](/docs/github/builder)._
```

Let me know what you think!

> the [Builder Action](/docs/github/builder)._

Reviewer 2: Ah, I must have misinterpreted what you typed. Early stages of development sounds like there are still bugs or that you don't have feature parity yet. Generally all our projects are on a best-effort basis and still in active development.

Your suggestion looks good to me though.

> the [Builder Action](/docs/github/builder)._

Author: > Early stages of development sounds like there are still bugs or that you don't have feature parity yet

That's fair. I'll remove the GitLab bit and push your suggestion.

## Activation

The orb uses a Unity Editor instance to test and build your projects. These operations demand the
instance to be activated beforehand — to accomplish this, the orb requires an encoded license or
serial to be included in the job’s Context. If you are unsure what this means or need help creating

> the license, navigate to the [Activation](/docs/circleci/activation) step before proceeding.

Author: I merged the paragraph below with this one and modified it according to your suggestions.

> If you proceed to [set up your workflow](#setting-up-a-workflow) without going through
> [activation](/docs/circleci/activation), your job won't have the necessary environment variables

> > for a successful run and it will fail.

Author: Done ✔️

## Setting up a workflow

Create a `.circleci/config.yml` file in the root of your repository and follow these steps:

> 1. Import the [Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity). It's recommended
>    to fix a `minor` or `patch` version to avoid updates with breaking changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Import the [Unity Orb](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity). It's recommended
   to fix to a `minor` version (e.g. `1.16`) to avoid receiving updates with breaking changes:
```

Author: Done ✔️

```yaml
version: 2.1

orbs:
  unity: game-ci/unity@x.y
```

2. Include a [build job](/docs/circleci/build) in your workflow and modify the
   [parameters](/docs/circleci/build#parameters) to accommodate your project needs:

```yaml
version: 2.1

orbs:
  unity: game-ci/unity@x.y

workflows:
  build-unity-project:
    jobs:
      - unity/build:
          name: 'build-linux64-il2cpp'
          step-name: 'Build StandaloneLinux64'

>           unity-license-var-name: 'UNITY_ENCODED_LICENSE'

Author: That's a good question. It's a pattern we generally follow in orb development. I wonder if it's because the content of an unencoded variable would get messed up when injected into the execution environment.

@KyleTryon, ant thoughts on this?

          unity-username-var-name: 'UNITY_USERNAME'
          unity-password-var-name: 'UNITY_PASSWORD'
          executor:
            name: 'unity/ubuntu'
            target_platform: 'linux-il2cpp'
            editor_version: '2021.3.1f1'
            resource_class: 'large'
          project-path: 'Unity2D-Demo-Game-CI-CD/src'
          build-target: StandaloneLinux64
          compress: true
          context: unity
```

3. Optionally, include a [test job](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/game-ci/unity#jobs-test)
   in your workflow. You can add it as a
   [requirement](https://circleci.com/docs/configuration-reference#requires) in the build job to

>    prevent it from running in case of failure:

Reviewer 2: The code block below this duplicates the entire build code-block.

Perhaps we could only add the part for the test, and a separate block with what has to change to the build step?

Author: Done ✔️

          step-name: 'Check if tests run and results are uploaded'
          unity-license-var-name: 'UNITY_ENCODED_LICENSE'
          unity-username-var-name: 'UNITY_USERNAME'
          unity-password-var-name: 'UNITY_PASSWORD'
          executor:
            name: 'unity/ubuntu'
            target_platform: 'linux-il2cpp'
            editor_version: '2021.3.1f1'
            resource_class: 'medium'
          project-path: 'Unity2D-Demo-Game-CI-CD/src'
          test-platform: 'playmode'
          context: unity
      - unity/build:
          name: 'build-linux64-il2cpp'
          step-name: 'Build StandaloneLinux64'
          unity-license-var-name: 'UNITY_ENCODED_LICENSE'
          unity-username-var-name: 'UNITY_USERNAME'
          unity-password-var-name: 'UNITY_PASSWORD'
          executor:
            name: 'unity/ubuntu'
            target_platform: 'linux-il2cpp'
            editor_version: '2021.3.1f1'
            resource_class: 'large'
          project-path: 'Unity2D-Demo-Game-CI-CD/src'
          build-target: StandaloneLinux64
          compress: true
          context: unity
          requires:
            - test-linux
```

4. Commit and push the new workflow.

> ## Downloading the artifacts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Downloading the result
```

Author: I feel like artifacts make more sense because that is how CircleCI calls the data you store throughout the job.
